on this episode of gummy style we're
talking about cardboard the humble
material that's used for boxing of
everything from toys to shoes to
furniture by now most communities
collect and recycle their cardboard
turning it into something useful like
insulation or pet bedding but here on
gummy style we think we can go one
better and actually reuse not recycle
the cardboard and avoid the waste stream
all together but first we got to get
enough material to actually do the work
so we're here at San Francisco's recycle
central to get some of the material
before it gets recycled
most people think of cardboard as a
material that really doesn't have a lot
of strength once it's been bent or
scored it sort of loses its structural
integrity but really that's not true
now this box you can see it's already
kind of falling apart but just by
keeping the relative structural
integrity up right here and up right on
this angle it's holding his entire 750
pound body weight so Chad this is the
approach that you're gonna take which is
a tongue-and-groove it's called a tab
slot from what it looks like you're
going to be using nothing but pieces of
cardboard upright like this and then a
series of pieces kind of slide it into
it like this and as you put those pieces
together that makes a structural unit
then now we're making another chair here
using cardboard that's much more raw and
scrappy and the pieces don't match so
much so we're going to use a technique
that kind of compensates for that and
still make something structural even
though the pieces are pretty sloppy what
we're going to end up with is a kind of
lounge chair that looks something like
this low to the ground comfortable
something that you wouldn't mind sitting
in to watch a movie or play video games
we'll see how far we get but what's
interesting is that chair it's actually
being compressed together because
there's a hole drilled through each
piece there's a long threaded rod
through that hole and then there's just
a washer in the nut on either end
compressing all that cardboard together
alright Charlie I found this cheap piece
of press poured from the back of am
bookshelf and this is just strong enough
to make a template that we can reuse
over and over again for cutting out the
cardboard shape we now have our finished
template we've got a nice smooth line
for the seating area we've got three
precision drilled holes which will go
into each
piece of cardboard as well those reddit
rods will go through that hole hold each
piece in line and that compression will
hold all those pieces together it'll be
a strong in the piece of wood
we've got Charlie set up now with an
assembly line so he can easily measure
draw and cut each piece of cardboard to
match the others meanwhile we let Chad
loose to develop his own chair design as
he goes along these two designs couldn't
be more different from one another
Charlie's chair uses a very simple
approach and requires a minimum of
design experience the challenge is that
it requires a huge amount of material to
make Chad's chair uses so little
cardboard that it's being made from a
single large cardboard box but it'll be
a technical challenge to design a
working chair strong enough to use every
day
this project is a great example not a
recycling but of reuse recycling would
involve taking this material to a
processing plant where it gets shredded
broken down and remanufactured into
insulation and other products but here
on Gomi style we feel it's always better
to reuse a material and keep it out of
the waste stream altogether as an
everyday chair this particular design I
would probably have to give a thumbs
down to like we suspected this back leg
having no support on it at all is a
little bit flimsy however as a beautiful
piece of art hanging on the wall not so
bad but this was a good experiment we
try to design that we just pretty much
made up on the spot and it really only
took us a couple hours of labor to
figure out if the design works I would
say we're mostly there and with just a
couple of modifications this design
would be rock solid you can see that
you've got a piece going this way and a
piece going this way what you're really
missing is that third component of a
piece going this way on each of the legs
and that way these legs would then
become
very independently strong and structural
whereas right now they still have a
tendency to be flexible all in all our
experiments were pretty interesting we
learned a couple of things one from this
lounge chair that we made we learned
that when you compress cardboard
together it becomes extremely strong
rigid and structural and in this chair
is rock solid as if it was made from a
single piece of wood so I think we
should make one or two more chairs like
this maybe even an ottoman or even
turned it into a couch but the next
reuse project for the game room is a
coffee table or some end tables and I
think the perfect material for that
would be from these some found steel
pipe and some other scrounge materials
stay tuned for that project next